src/README.md, before:

# Tooling to generate interpreters

What's currently here:

- lexer.py: lexer for C, originally written by Mark Shannon
- plexer.py: OO interface on top of lexer.py; main class: `PLexer`
- eparser.py: Parser for C expressions
  - `EParser`: parser class, derives from `PLexer`
  - `Node`: base class for AST nodes
  - `contextual`: decorator for parsing methods
  - Various AST node classes
- sparser.py: Parser for C statements and declarations (within functions)
  - `SParser`: parser class, derives from `EParser`
  - More AST node classes
- `generate_cases.py`: driver script to read `Python/bytecodes.c` and
  write `Python/generated_cases.c.h`
- `extract_cases.py`: _temporary_ script to extract cases from
  `Python/ceval.c` and write them to `Python/bytecodes.c`
- `bytecodes_template.h`: template used by `extract_cases.py`

The DSL for the instruction definitions in `Python/bytecodes.c` is described
[here](https://github.com/faster-cpython/ideas/blob/main/3.12/interpreter_definition.md).
Note that there is some dummy C code at the top and bottom of the file
to fool text editors like VS Code into believing this is valid C code.

## A bit about the parsers

The parser classes use use a pretty standard recursive descent scheme,
but with unlimited backtracking.
The `PLexer` class tokenizes the entire input before parsing starts.
We do not run the C preprocessor.
Each parsing method returns either an AST node (a `Node` instance)
or `None`, or raises `SyntaxError` (showing the error in the C source).

All parsing methods are decorated with `@contextual`, which automatically
resets the tokenizer input position when `None` is returned.
Parsing methods may also raise `SyntaxError`, which is irrecoverable.
When a parsing method returns `None`, it is possible that after backtracking
a different parsing method returns a valid AST.

Neither the lexer nor the parsers are complete or fully correct.
Most known issues are tersely indicated by `# TODO:` comments.
We plan to fix issues as they become relevant.

A particular problem is that we don't know which identifiers are typedefs.
This makes some parts of the C grammar ambiguous, for example,
`(x)*y` could be a cast to type `x` of the pointer dereferencing `*y`,
or it could mean to compute `x` times `y`.
Similarly, `(x)(y)` could cast `y` to type `x`,
or call function `x` with argument `y`.
Our parser currently interprets such cases as casts.
We will solve this when we need to understand expressions in more detail
(for example, by providing a list of known typedefs generated by hand).

Commit message:

Update infra to latest from cpython

src/README.md, after:

# C expression and statement parser

What's here:

- `lexer.py`: lexer for C, originally written by Mark Shannon
- `plexer.py`: OO interface on top of lexer.py; main class: `PLexer`
- `parsing.py`: Parsing support (`contextual`, `context`, `Node`)
- `eparser.py`: Expression parser
- `sparser.py`: Statement parser

## A bit about the parsers

The parser classes uses a pretty standard recursive descent scheme,
but with unlimited backtracking.
The `PLexer` class tokenizes the entire input before parsing starts.
We do not run the C preprocessor.
Each parsing method returns either an AST node (a `Node` instance)
or `None`, or raises `SyntaxError` (showing the error in the C source).

Most parsing methods are decorated with `@contextual`, which automatically
resets the tokenizer input position when `None` is returned.
Parsing methods may also raise `SyntaxError`, which is irrecoverable.
When a parsing method returns `None`, it is possible that after backtracking
a different parsing method returns a valid AST.

Neither the lexer nor the parsers are complete or fully correct.
Most known issues are tersely indicated by `# TODO:` comments.
We plan to fix issues as they become relevant.

A particular problem is that we don't know which identifiers are typedefs.
This makes some parts of the C grammar ambiguous, for example,
`(x)*y` could be a cast to type `x` of the pointer dereferencing `*y`,
or it could mean to compute `x` times `y`.
Similarly, `(x)(y)` could cast `y` to type `x`,
or call function `x` with argument `y`.
Our parser currently interprets such cases as casts.
We will solve this when we need to understand expressions in more detail
(for example, by providing a list of known typedefs generated by hand).
